# Gaetano DiNardi - YouTube Transcript

Video Title: The Dark SEO Funnel | AirOps & Gaetano DiNardi

Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0XWc3NfMIUc

Collected: 2026-04-18

Collection method: Supadata transcript API with native captions when available.

## Transcript

Hey everybody, thank you so much for joining the webinar with Katano Dinardi. We did have some technical issues at the beginning, but this was a really great webinar that you'll want to jump in for. You may have missed maybe just the first 10 or the conversation, but we hit on a lot of great topics like mention versus citation rate, which prompts you should track and which ones you shouldn't. Barbecue content, that's content that really helps you stand out. And then also how do you communicate all of these changes with SEO and search to your stakeholders, your key leaders to the sea suite. We cover all of that and more. You didn't miss a thing. So thank you so much for joining our webinar. Thank you for your interest in Aerops. And if you have any questions, feel free to email us at growthairops.com and put webinar in the subject line. We'd be happy to run you through some example workflows and more of what you can do in Aerops. Thanks so much and we'll talk to you soon. Traffic is still a component, but it's not the only component like it used to be. Now, what we have to do, whether you're in-house or you're a service provider, if you're in-house, you need to do this because you need to show it to your higherups. If you're a service provider, you need to show it to your clients. But how do you piece the story together? Traffic is not only the sole piece. Now, there's this visibility component. And I don't think showing impressions from search console are going to do it. impressions from search console are very inflated and so I don't know if that's the the other alternative either like they they want to know how your brand is getting recommended and showing up across all these different platforms as well that's the other thing that makes it tricky the answers keep changing >> I've noticed that too >> so what you see in AI overview today is probably not going to be the same AI overview next week what chat GPT render as the answer today is not going to be the same answer next week. Same thing goes for perplexity and whatever else. So now you have this all you have this problem where there's all these platforms that the answers keep changing all the time. You have citations which means your URL from your website from your content that's getting pulled in and you could report on that. Then there's the brand recommendation side which has something to do with the citation but not always. So you have now traffic, you have brand recommendations, you have URL citations, you have backlinks, you have and of course all that all those are the leading indicators. We'll talk the lagging indicators which of course the executives care a lot more about which is demo requests, free trials, free trial signups, uh pipeline created from the organic channel. So how do you connect the dots from the leading indicators to the lagging indicators? That is like the big question of today, right? So anyway, this is the new reality of search and this is where we are >> and you've written quite a bit about this, the top offunnel collapse. That's something that we've all seen. Maybe just walk people through like even this example you have here, but also identify what topofunnel is for you. There might be some different definitions out there and then yeah, how is it collapsing a bit? Yeah, you could even say that this webinar is top offunnel, right? This webinar is a great example of top offunnel. This is something that is not directly tied or connected to the product of air ops, right? It's there's a connection there, but it's not somebody looking to buy air ops, right? And so if you look at this example that I wrote about on search engine land, most of the top of funnel that you'll see on like B2B cybert websites, it goes into a category of pages called glossery usually or FAQ. These are generally the most basic kinds of topics out there. They're just definitions of terms and jargon and stuff like that. And this is the stuff where AI just gives the answer now and there's no need to click anymore. And so it's no surprise that these are the sections of the websites that are seeing the biggest collapses and traffic year over year. And so I expect this trend to to really continue. And then it brings up another interesting debate for LLMs or top of funnel, right? These are the kinds of things that are not going to ever recommend a brand. So, is this worth tracking in your prompt set? We're going to talk about that. >> Yeah, we're seeing that on the Chad Bet side especially like on these like higherfunnelformational queries like they're not mentioning brands at all. They're just kind of like giving you the answer. What is project management software? I always kind of use those examples. It's just going to tell you generally what that software or product does and not necessar or what that category does and not necessarily like name specifics. Yeah, we can go to the next slide, but I think what I'll say about the great normalization of SEO is let's use this webinar as an example. What Aerops is doing is smart because this is top of funnel. >> Thank you. >> But yeah, but you guys aren't relying on search to be the distribution for your top ofunnel. You guys are absorbing the burden of promotion and you're doing it yourselves. And that's the point is top of funnel can still work, but you as the brand kind of need to absorb that burden of doing the promotion yourself, that outbound push. You guys have a distribution list. You guys are busy on social. You guys have other people sharing your stuff. You're not just relying on SEO to get your ideas out there. And I think that's what's challenging for a lot of brands to just internalize. And that's the point I'm making about the great normalization of SEO is that the focus on traffic generation is going away. Informational pages are losing clicks and impact. Strategy for search must shift to high intent and AI visibility. But that doesn't necessarily mean top of funnel is bad. It just means that top offunnel for search is bad. Top offunnel for search is not as effective. But top offunnel can still work very well in a multi-channel type of strategy where you're not just relying on search to get your ideas out there. You're promoting it in other ways. And so the higher funnel you get, the more that's going to fall on your shoulders to get the idea out there through promotion. Yeah, I really like that point. So, it's not that top ofunnel isn't a marketing need anymore. It still is there. You just can't like flip the switch to like free traffic. Not that SEO organic traffic was ever completely free, but we were falling into some of that mindset where you could just publish a few good articles, definitely optimize it, and then get a lot of that top off ofunnel stuff for high volume keywords. And that's just not >> there. And let's be honest, most of the traffic that is generated through TopFunnel in the old days, companies weren't putting like a tremendous amount of effort into making it the best and greatest piece out there, right? It was probably ghost written by somebody. It was probably put under the authorship of somebody who works at the company, but that person didn't really write it. And they just publish it on the corporate blog. they get it to rank because the site has domain strength and that's the easy cheap hack to distribution. The reason why it doesn't work now is because if AirOps is going to put something out there, you guys are attaching your name to it. Josh, you're putting your name on something. Like me, if I'm going to do a webinar, I put effort into the slides with you guys to make it great. I'm putting my name behind something. This is me. My reputation's on the line for this. I can't just put out some schlop. You know what I'm saying? And and so that's another big difference, too, is that companies were willing to put out schlop in the past >> through ghost written efforts, probably generic, and now if you're going to put your name on something and promote it, it's got to be good. So, that's another big difference. >> Yeah. On our end, we call that information gain content where it's including your own like >> point of view, your own opinion. And a lot of times you're using your own like data and research to really make that differentiator and kind of have your content stand out a lot more. I think a term well we're going to get to that here in a second. The idea of barbecue content we have in here too which we'll hit on too. So as we're thinking about that because the top of funnel has collapsed. We may not be getting the same traffic amounts of traffic as we used to. We might not even be getting the same number of conversions in the same way. So what are some metrics that we should start to maybe retire and what are some metrics we should start to track? >> Yeah. So this is subjective but I think there's definitely some stuff to retire traffic toformational content is going to be tough, right? You can still report on traffic though to say your solutions pages or your product pages or other sections of the site that are less susceptible to volatility. That is probably worth doing. But the overall picture of traffic is going to be far less important. We talked about impressions CTR. This is like really tough to make the argument for stuff like this. Like showing your boss or your clients like impressions going up from search console. That's going to be really I think tough to justify. Keyword rankings. Maybe you can make the case for some of this stuff. Like I I do think the top 10 position holding as an index can be something that's decent, right? because you can show your client or your manager, look, our top 10 position holdings are stable and rising. Yet, the traffic that we're getting is declining. So, it's not that we're losing traffic because our keyword positions are tanking and we're doing something that's messed up. It's just that you're not getting the same bang for your buck in terms of that ranking. So, that might be something decent to consider. But moving into the future, the prompt monitoring is going to be the next piece of that puzzle. I love the grounded prompts with citation and brand mentions. That's probably the most important thing for me. That's something I'm really relying on today. Citation rate and brand inclusion is good, too. I'm torn still about citation rate without the brand inclusion. It's still a little bit of a gray area. We'll talk about it more. Curious to get your take as well, Josh. But that one for me is up in the air. I do the high engagement, high intent engagement from AI searches. And then obviously this is the most important one, conversion and pipeline impact from AI and classic search, right? The whole shebang. This is key. Yeah, I I like what you said about the solution pages because I'm I use AOPS for Aerops and I'm writing some stuff about workflows and even LLM visibility and I'm noticing the closer that you are to that like consideration stage, let's say that middle funnel area, your brand is more likely to be mentioned. So if we're talking about AI workflows, Aerops is AI workflows for content. Aerops is more likely to be mentioned and compared to just what is SEO or something like that, right? or else you won't be as likely to be mentioned. >> Yeah, I do want to address some of the comments real quick. So, James makes a point that I actually do agree with. He says that keyword rankings for the right keywords and I've I've been doing this my whole life and I still do it today. I still rank track for now what I call the money terms, the money keywords. I still think this is a strong indicator for what your performance could be in LLMs. I do agree with that and I think it's a good thing to be doing. The key though is don't track a ton of stuff. It should just be the most important keywords to the business. It doesn't need to be every variation of that either. It just needs to be the seed idea at least. Mark says the challenge is that it's difficult to measure modern metrics. There's snake oil solutions out there that claim they can measure all of that stuff. I've yet to see anything trustworthy to to that point. I don't know if it's so much snake oil solutions. I think it's more that the answers keep changing. Everything keeps changing every week and marketers, they don't have the skills yet to deal with all these complexities and nuances within the tools. And so there's still an educational gap from marketers on how these tools work and what's their purpose and how to actually drive the car. This is a high-powered car that we're getting now and a lot of marketers don't know how to drive it. I agree to what you said about tracking like certain prompts. We do have a slide about that and we do that at AirOps as well. We are looking at like patterns within the prompts and like kind of some of those commonalities there. >> But it is hard to track just like it's hard to track thousands upon thousands of keywords. It's also harder to track thousands thousands of props. It is good to focus on some ones where you might be Yeah. >> flipping, where you might be gaining. And I really like your point about the money money prompts or money keywords. That's really good. >> Yeah. Last thing on that is, yeah, you can leave this up, Josh. We'll get into this, but Miho said homepage traffic, I think that's good. It's good. Let's just start by saying that it's good, but that can only be one more piece to the overall puzzle because you don't want to really lead with that. If you lead with that and you say, "Look, homepage traffic is is up, right?" That could also be because of PR efforts. That could also be because of an event that just happened where everybody is now searching the brand name. You don't want to make it seem like the SEO team and the LLM work is getting the credit for homepage and brand stuff going up. I think you can present that information, but you got to do it in a way that's careful. You want to say, look, this is just another another data point. It's just another facet of this whole thing, this whole puzzle. It's another piece to the puzzle. So, be careful about that one. Yes, I do agree that it's good, but it'd be better than saying that homepage traffic's going down. If homepage traffic's going down, that's a problem. >> They all kind of work together in that way. You threw in a slide about training data answers. Like, what are you getting at here? >> Yeah. So, I'm This is the kind of prompt I'm not really a big fan of. >> Okay. This is a good topic to promote. This would be a great webinar topic. This would be a great guest post. This would be a great whatever you want, however you want to use this for social diagram on social, right? This is something that I could see doing well. But in terms of prompt tracking, they're just going to basically steal your content. They're going to answer it in the training data like this and that's it. And so what's the value in reporting on something like this where it just says do this and that's it. This is something where I'm a little bit torn because even if you have the citation, maybe you could argue that, you know, getting the URL citation is the precursor to eventually getting recommended at some point. But as it stands today, if you just track a prompt like this and it has a training data answer and then that's it, it's how exciting is this? I just don't know. >> It is interesting to monitor in case it does change as they do like their updates and stuff like that if they start adding to your point like if citations begin to influence some of these answers that they do begin to give. >> Yeah, I guess it's the viewpoint, right? Do you have a optimistic viewpoint or are you a skeptic like me? See, like I'm a skeptic. I see something like this and I'm like, "Ah, yeah, maybe someday it could start recommending a tool, but I think for now just cut it because at the end of the day, this is something that on like a prompt visibility dashboard tool, it's your your presence on this, your brand presence is going to add on the zeros. So, this is going to weigh down your score if you want to call it that. Yeah, >> but it's Yeah, but it's going to weigh down everybody's score because nobody's getting recommended. What do you do? >> Yeah, in Air apps, we actually have an ability to where you can like track like branded props versus what we call category props to show where your like brand isn't mentioned there. But I think that does lead into a good point that you have here around like the good prompts to track. So >> yeah, >> why are you suggesting the these types? >> Well, these are the ones that explicitly use grounded And these are the ones that explicitly recommend brands. So the place if you're going to start somewhere, this is where you want to start. How does client or my brand compare to other AI GTM platforms? What are the best alternatives to Zoom info? What are the best GTM orchestration tools out there with AI? So on and so on, right? I think I would start here. I would come up with what are the what are you can cross reference this even with Google ads, right? your company is running Google ads, usually they're bidding on stuff that's conversion driven, >> right? >> So, that might be a good way to narrow this down as well. You can even categorize it based on how it's set up in Google Ads. Like, usually your company will have it by by ad group and that's a theme. And then maybe that could become a category of prompts that you convert your seed keywords from Google Ads into your prompt tracking tool of choice. You convert it that way. Right? That's probably the way I would get it started if you're not doing it at all yet. This is my take. >> No, I love this list because these do to your point trigger a web search from like LGBT or Perplexity for that matter. And it's also pulling in from not only your site, the content on your site, but also like third party sites and stuff like that. But then reviews and even some of the PR and some of those off-site mentions really start to to impact these questions too. >> Now, I will say this too. it comes back full circle on the rank tracking thing. Let's be real, this stuff gets sucked out of the SERs, you know what I mean? So, if you're not there in classic sense, then you're probably not going to be showing up here. It's possible that only third parties are driving it. That's another thing I will say. There are some SERs and some prompts that I've seen where it's 99% third parties only. I have seen that for some like super high competition, high volume. Imagine like high volume, high competition. Like I've seen this for like best employee monitoring software. I think I've seen it even for best identity theft, stuff like that. Like hyper competitive stuff. I've seen it very third party based >> and that includes like review sites, Reddit, all that. >> Yeah, some Reddit, but a lot of affiliate affiliate. Yeah. So, a lot of the PC Mags, Tom's World, people managing people, a lot of those types of sites, even the Gartners, of course, you're going to see those. So, yeah. >> Yeah. I was actually chatting with Nick Leroy yesterday. He's also like an SEO consultant, and he's big on that affiliate as like an outside mention type play. Like getting included in those lists are really driving a lot of what in in some of the LLMs, too. So, that that's you've seen that same trend. >> Yeah. That said, we do have some monitoring prompts and metrics like within AOPS. So, we have this ability where you can see like your visibility rate, share voice, position, citations, mentions. You can also dive in to see any community aspects too from like Reddit, LinkedIn. If you are interested in that, I said that at the top, but I might have missed it. For more info on that, you can email us at growthairs.com and just put webinar in the subject line and we can give you some examples of what that looks like and really show some of these high brand intent prompts as well. So that's one way you can start with prompt monitoring too. Another point here which I've seen a lot about is the messy middle. We've just talked about that a little bit and you've seen a really interesting conversion pattern for B2B SAS. I've got to notice something similar, but yeah, walk us through what you're thinking about for the middle funnel here. >> Yeah, I mean, we I see this a lot with clients because and by this came from one of my Substack posts. I just took a snapshot of this line because I felt it was a heavy hitter, but I see evidence of this with a lot of my clients because we get the how did you hear about us data and a lot of it says chat GPT perplexity, right? But then when you look at the machine reported attribution, it'll say Google, you know, or where did the conversion happen? It'll be like the homepage, but the session refer was not chatg. So I have to then infer based on all these patterns is that there's got to be a lot of AI usage for discovery, exploration, narrowing down, comparison of tools, stuff like that, and then going into Google for the brand direct conversion. So the messy middle is definitely getting messier. And it goes back to what we talked about earlier is you got to piece all these things together because there is this is what the direct funnel is essentially communicating is that attribution is breaking. So it's not that SEO is dying. Attribution is the thing that's breaking. And so this diagram here I think really does a good job at illustrating exactly what's happening. But we're getting into this world where it's yeah you got to rely more on the zeroclick brand answer recommendation. The brand recall is going to matter more. the visibility stuff's going to matter more. What we tried to do back in the day, Josh, with >> we called it SER domination or Barnacle [clears throat] SEO where you would search like your money keyword, right? So imagine it's like best business phone software, best business phone service and you would try and rank in every position with an affiliate, a partner page, whether it's review site, you try and boost your reviews so that your brand comes up the most in that so on and so on. I think that's what's happening here to an extent. And then the conversions are happening downstream. It's getting harder to track. It makes the effectiveness of attribution tools even more questionable. I'm starting to get to a place where I feel that we need to adopt some of the AHF's marketing team thinking where it's we got to do what's right for the business and make our best efforts, but we can't get ourselves so lost in attribution that we're missing the forest for the trees. >> Yeah. Yeah. I love that particle SEO idea, too. I think Alex Briquette from Omnician, he calls it surround sound SEO where surround sound. >> Yeah. You appear in you type in your keyword and then you're being mentioned by seven or eight different sites all are recommending your brand in some way. I think that as far as a mention driven strategy and for a brand recall strategy is a really good way to to work. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. What I'm seeing on our end too, and we've had several clients tell us this too, is conversions coming from some of the LLMs are actually the conversion rate is a little bit higher because people have already been doing their research from some of that that training data that we've already talked about and then when they're hitting your site, they're more likely to buy. Is that are you seeing any similar patterns? >> Yes, I I wrote exactly about this very thing on my Substack. I'll put the link to that post in the chat. But >> you know essenti yeah essentially the what I'm observing is that >> AI chat is sending a very low amount of traffic compared to Google and Bing. The reason for that is because it's very targeted traffic. So it's obviously these chat bots are so good at figuring out the exact destination you want to go after all the back and forth interaction. And when it finally presents a link that you're going to go and click, chances are you narrowed that search journey way down through the interaction with the chat. But most people don't actually click from the chat. That's another thing. They go, as we just saw, and search the brand. But by default, you're going to have a lot of conversions because if the chat is sending such targeted traffic to such a targeted page on the site, the chances of a conversion happening are probably better there. But what I've also found, especially for the upmarket clients, is that Google is getting the credit for the bigger deal sizes. So it might be the it might be the case that for simple things like a free trial sign up that a buyer would be willing to go and do that through a chat GBT, but like for an enterprise buyer that has to go and go through much more deeper, you know, consideration analysis, right? They're probably going to be going back and forth between a ton of different places and they may feel the most confident in requesting a demo with a sales architect through the classic web form rather than going through like a chat and they do that through Google. So it might be the case that they got to go and feel the site, go to the solutions pages, go to the integration pages, go through the documentations and stuff like that and they're going to be probably less likely to just go through a simple model where they go through chat. I that is like an exceptional point for sure. I forgot who said it and where this research came from, but it was like the total addressable market of search is actually like expanding because people are jumping back and forth between Chad GBT and Google. I didn't really think about people like going to LLMs, maybe not quite trusting it, then bouncing over to Google and then hitting your site. I think that's like really fascinating. For sure. >> Yeah, that that was researched from SCM Rush. I just put it in the chat as well. This is some other Oh, this is search engine land or maybe it's Semrush. I can't remember. >> This came Yeah, this was search engine land that referenced Semrush, but it's the same idea. >> Yeah, >> the AI overviews are mostly appearing for theformational queries. So, it's mostly theformational queries that are getting sabotaged by the AI overviews. Even though they can still appear for some of the other types of searches, the majority of stuff that triggers the AIO is theformational content. And then we are seeing those searches. We're seeing like traditional search maybe tailing off a bit here, but then LLM value like ultimately increasing as we get down the clickfunnel. >> Yeah, this is good to see came from search engine land. I think it goes back to that brand recall thing and the what's the greater story of search? There's now another additive channel that has to be accounted for. That's just the reality, right? So search has essentially evolved beyond the classic channel into another channel and now you as the marketer. You actually have to report on both channels. That's basically your job just got your job just got easier and harder at the same time. >> Yeah. Especially as people are like bouncing around a bit as we were talking about. And when I think about the dark SEO funnel, that is really what we're talking about is this part here is like people bouncing around for multiple like surfaces. >> Yeah. So, so I really like that point, too. >> Maybe >> now we're trying to think about mentions versus LM citations. Did you What was the point that you had here? Yeah, go for it. >> Yeah, I put this together for you guys, and this is something that I'm explaining to my clients regularly, but there's a lot of confusion in terms of what does it actually mean to show up in an LLM? You hear that phrase get thrown out there a lot. How do we show up in LLM's? Show up can mean the brand mention which is the recommendation. It can also mean just your link gets cited and from what I've observed the way this generally happens is that you need the entity co-occurrence for the mention. So the more your brand gets mentioned alongside thing. So think about the word cloud of stuff surrounding your brand. you would need to increase the word cloud of a certain thing to grow your brand mentions and then show up alongside that thing more often, but that's harder to control because that's more of a training data effect. So, there's no way to really hack that so much. That's why I'm actually against any tools that claim they can automate your brand mentions. I don't know how that can really happen. I don't I haven't heard of any success stories about hey we automated our brand mentions so that we can get more LLM visibility. I have not heard of any success on that ever. Like to get brand mentions requires real marketing work. I don't see how you can automate that. And then moving on the other sides to the LLM URL citation. Yes, this is more hackable to some extent because you could use the surround sound SEO. Rand Christian used to call it the barnacle SEO strategy where you know you just you get added to a list and then there you rank in a third party or you pay to play you do an affiliate arrangement where you're doing paytoplay and some kind of affiliate site and now you're ranking through that or you just rank yourself with a first party self-s serving overly promotional we're the best out of these 10 tools [laughter] works whether you hate whether you hate it or love it works for now. >> So that still Yeah. So that still relies on the traditional SEO factors. And so yeah, you got to distinguish the mention versus the citation because there two different mechanisms. It's the training data versus the ranking effect of where you are, right? Like those URLs get pulled out of ranking from Bing and Google. >> Yeah, I really like this chart as a distinction to think about as you're trying to think about the difference between mentions and citations and the value of both of those. There is one big topic I want to talk about as I'm looking at our time here. Thanks for everybody's patience today. You brought this topic to me, barbecue content. And this is content that really helps you stand out in the market and to your core audience. So, just tell me why you think this type of content is super valuable and why more marketers need to be investing in it. >> Yeah, I think this is barbecue content. The dark SEO funnel doesn't have any search volume out there, right? So, I think maybe one of the ways to think about it is do you have a great topic, a great idea, but it just has no search volume because maybe it's a new thing or maybe it's just not framed in a way that most people think about it. However you come up with that can generally be barbecue content. I think the guy who originally wrote about this, I forgot his name. He's a smart dude, but essentially he said, "Imagine if you had a bunch of DevOps engineers at a backyard barbecue in the summertime. What do you think they'd eventually be talking about with regard to their profession or their craft? What's the what's what are some of the themes? What are some of the hot topics? A lot of those things don't have search demand. So, barbecue content is like the opposite of keyword driven content demand strategy where you go and AHFs and you get keywords that have a lot of volume and you go and prioritize that and produce content. This is like interesting new emerging things point of view. I did I tried these new ways of doing things and here's what I learned all that stuff right that's barbecue content >> and and so why does it help you if we are coming as a maybe a classic SEO marketer a traditional content marketer why is this type of content going to help me in some of my search efforts >> I think that this is good stuff that you can layer in to some of the search driven content so this is the stuff that can be additive or can be used as information gain, right? So, you can have a guide about how to do LLM optimization, right? That obviously has a lot of volume behind it. It's a search topic, but the barbecue stuff can feed that. So, you layer the barbecue stuff into the some of the search driven stuff. So, it's basically like a blend sort of strategy. It's a way of creating information gain based content without relying on search as the only way that you're going to distribute it. >> Yeah, I love that. We I use these webinars to be able to do that on our side talking to experts like yourself. I then feed that content into maybe a more like SEO driven topic. We also have a really successful research motion that we've started at AirOps where we're like creating like new data points that we can then share, but then that also helps with prove our points on like maybe some of our search driven content as well. So I I agree. I love that approach of blending these two things together. >> Yeah. And that rolls into I I think the way that we have to be thinking about it is like how do I take some of our unique insights be able to put that into some of our regular SEO regular type SEO posts and that's all part of our strategic playbook for 2026. If we're thinking about that, what are some of the stuff I need to focus on for this year? We're still in January, believe it or not. Like what are you suggesting folks to do as they're rewriting their SEO playbook and their search playbook? Yeah, I'm a big fan of what Kevin Indig was talking about with regard to topic based SEO. I know it's funny that we're saying that because what's old is new again and it's all coming full circle, but like that topical clustering model is definitely a smart way to go about thinking about SEO. I think one example I gave a client was like look, let's just say the topic is middleware integration platform. Let's just say that back in the day, back in the day, we could have brute forced that we could have done a massive skyscraper best middleware integration platforms page. We could have put tons of resources and effort into it. We could have pounded the piss out of it with back links, the whole shebang. We could have made it the best skyscraper resource out there. 20 best for this in 2025 thing, right? And we know it would rank, >> right? >> For sure. It would rank and we'd kill it. >> Imagine now a world where it's AI mode first. Like that may be happening. We don't know for sure when, but the signs are there, right? I think that you can still succeed doing something like that in an AI mode first world. you actually need to build that whole neighborhood of content relevance to associate that with your brand. If that's the first piece of middleware topics that you've ever done and it's just like a oneoff, I don't think the oneoffs work anymore in terms of the capturing demand bottom of funnel strategy. And so I think I'll find the Kevin indig topical SEO post and put it in the chat for everybody. But I think embracing query fan out, embracing topic first SEO, and then I think all the other stuff we talked about with regard to the narrative, the storyline, like how do you take all these bits and pieces now that you have to go and grab from all these different places and how do you present that to a cohesive story that makes sense to your executive team? I think that's probably like the headlines of the strategic playbook. Yeah, Evan put it in there. Thank you. >> Evan Evan jumped in on there. Thank you, Evan. Timothy made a great point about content entity. Like I love the point about the oneoff post. It's just not going to work. Like you have to be known for certain topics before Google or another LLM will like start to favor you or maybe even start to mention you. Like you I wrote about this a while ago, but I think that was like the HubSpot quote fall of their traffic was they had a bunch of emo one-off post. What does the emoji shrug mean? All of that had so far away from like their core offerings that >> it just didn't make sense. And in the old days, you could definitely start to use that, but like it's a lot harder to pull something off like that now. >> Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. The what I think the one-off strategy is going to be very tough. Yeah. what Timothy Wilson said about the content entity. It's key. It's key. Yeah, you got to build those entity co-occurrences up. And I think the the topical SEO strategy there from Kevin Indig is a great one for everybody to go check out. Uh and so it's fun for us to talk about this of course at a webinar with a lot of folks who are practicing SEO content and search but how are we supposed to talk about it to the seuite to our CMOs maybe to our growth leaders who may be like covering so many different channels there's a lot on this slide here but maybe a few things that kind of stick out to you as far as how do you talk to stakeholders now about the state of SEO Yeah, I think there's three categories of it which pretty much align here. You have first of all SEO inputs. What are the things that we're actually doing? And generally that is within the scope of things we can control ourselves. So that is pretty much content production, usually net new or content updating or maybe even content pruning, content consolidation, content cleanup. But it's a lot of contentbased work that we can put that on the scoreboard and show to our clients or higherups that these are the actions we're taking that we have high conviction in. It may even include some of the third party work that's got to get done. So it might so one thing I'm actually teaching my clients how to do is how to scout on LinkedIn the other kinds of sites that are ranking and getting good visibility in AI platforms. What are some ways you can reach out to them and build connections? And I've got some templates and some ways that I've got in my back pocket to, you know, get those people on a Zoom call and talk about how to collaborate effectively for greater SEO ROI, right? Like it could be stuff like that. It could also even be things like thinking outside of the landscape of textbased content and doing things like video or seeing how you can run some social experiments that might be able to impact SER visibility. Right? So, it's the actions we're taking every month as a SEO team. What's that look like? From there, you have the leading indicators which are all over this slide and it's all the stuff we've talked about all day, but it's the the brand citations, the AI generated answer recommendations, stuff like that. And then lastly, it's going to be what is the organic channel performance looking like? Are we hitting our targets or not? That's probably where a lot of stuff goes up for debate because if you know you're doing all the right things, but the company is not hitting their targets, then what? You know, does that fall does that fall on you or what if the opposite is happening? What if the SEO team is not really getting so much visibility, but yet the channel performance is incredible. It has to do with an event that the events team did and that was really the the reason why they had so much success. But there's a lot of stuff that's like hard to connect the dots to. It's hard to know for sure what is the true, you know, outcome of what the SEO work is. And the smaller volume you are probably the more that gets put under a magnifying glass. So I think just do your best. That's really my advice. Execute to the best of your ability. Learn how to tell the story. Do your best possible work. Don't try and take credit for things that you know are like a stretch. And just be real. Just be real. Look at this. Look at the data to the best of your ability. Put together a story that makes sense and just do the best you can. >> And then we're in the home stretch here, but I love your point, Jared. I think you made a Ross Hudson's podcast about >> about revenue attribution to organic traffic. I thought you had a really good point. you just want to chat through this a bit too. >> Yeah. So, if anybody wants to steal this, go for it. This is slide that I put together for every client that I work with. This is actually a year-over-year slide with a specific client where we actually put everything into one view year-over-year. What happened in terms of demo requests from organic search, stage one pipeline, stage two pipeline, and then on the other side, what happened to traffic? What happened to top 10 ranking positions? Our LLM sessions obviously exploded because started from zero. But you can even see demos to qualified conversion rate increased a ton because traffic went down so much from theformational stuff. So that's another thing that you should see happening too. Ifformational traffic is tanking that means your conversion rate from organic search should be rising a lot. So if you put everything side by side like this into one view, you can see, all right, this is how you fight back against the question. If traffic's going down, how do we know SEO is working? This is how you do it. But you need a slide like this. If you don't have something like this, it's going to be very hard for you to explain what's going on. They're going to be badgering you about the qu the question about traffic. You're going to be stumbling and bumbling. You're not going to know what to say, and you're going to look bad. So you need something like this because this is your best defensibility. This is putting into action the dark SEO funnel that we've been talking about. So this is showing the com like the elimination of the top of funnel and then just like the focus on the middle funnel and the bottom funnel traffic. You're having high intent traffic now at your site who's ready to buy. And that's what that demo to qualified conversion rate is really showing here because your organic top offunnel stuff is down. But that doesn't necessarily mean your demos are down. >> Yeah. And you also have the top 10 ranking positions holding steady. In fact, that's up quite a lot. >> Oh yeah, good point. Good point. Yeah. >> Yeah. And then the other stuff we talked about too, Josh, if you remember, we said you can isolate solutions page traffic, you can isolate homepage traffic, you can isolate product pages, whatever it is. You can show thatformational content, which is usually under blog or resources or some other area of the site, that's going to be going down dramatically. But the other sections of the site should be generally stable. Now the Now what's interesting about this client is traffic went down 2%. But do you know how hard we had to work to just break even? We made so many gains that were offset by so many losses that everything remained flat. If this was like a normal period where AI wasn't a factor and we didn't have AI overviews, traffic would have been up by 100%. Wow. Yeah. >> Yeah. And that's the difference, right? When traffic went up 100%, that's all we had to show. That's it. We didn't have to go through all the work to get all this other information. We just said, "Look, traffic's up 100%." Everybody would say, "Yeah, SEO team traffic's up." Everybody claps. Holy But now we don't And now we don't have that. >> So, we have to actually do so much more work >> to show that Yeah. to get that negative 2% was hard. If we didn't work so hard to actually get gains, that would have been down 40%. >> So, there was still a ton of SEO organic traffic work going in there just to maintain those positions and that like >> Yes. Yes. Like the gains we made. Yeah. The gains we made weren't even enough to offset the losses. >> And that's another thing too, right? We didn't try and go and chase. We didn't say, "Oh, no. all the pages that went down 40 50%. We got to go and do something about that. We just said is what it is. It still ranks in the same spot. It's just getting 50% less clicks. >> And then because now you're getting the relevant traffic or the relevant buyers who's like visiting your site to then get that good conversion right there. So that's a really good point for sure. >> Yeah, exactly. >> So nice job. Nice job. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So this is like grand slam. Like client sees that automatic contract renewal. It's like there you go. >> Oh man, this has been really fun today. If you want to learn more about how to unlock the dark SEO funnel, we're happy to do an AI search strategy session with you. You will get to see proven examples of AI search workflows, learn how to connect G4, GSC to help you find opportunities and then you'll get an AI search action plan. I'd say a big differentiator for Aerops is like we can see a lot of the prompts and things that you're tracking, but then you can take action on those with our workflows. So, email us at growthairups.com if you are interested in that. Put webinar in the subject line. Would love to chat with you all about that. Thank you guys so much. We don't maybe Gado, did you see one question you wanted to hit or anything as we close up here, >> man? I think we just went into so much. I don't know. I think that's it for today, but if anybody wants to follow up, just hit me up on LinkedIn or X or Josh and we'll go from there. >> Yeah. Thank you everyone for going here. Let me put Katano's connections up here. Follow him on LinkedIn. Find them on marketing advice. Thank you everyone for your patience dealing with some technical issues at the start. Lots of great stuff here. We'll be sending out a recap. We'll be sending out some clips and then if you want you can join me next week. I'm going to be talking to Josh Grant from Web Flow, Ethan Smith from Graphite, and then Alex Holidayiday from he's the CEO of Aerops. We're going to be going through the art and science of growth marketing and what that means for AEO. So this is a great talk today. really appreciate everybody joining us and Gatano, what a pleasure. >> Thank you, Josh. Thank you. >> Yeah, thank you everyone. Have a good afternoon.

